README.md, before:

# Covariates_Analysis

This repository is linked to the publication: 

[La Fisca et. al., "Biases in BCI Experiments: Do we really need to balance stimulus properties across categories?", Frontiers in Computational Neuroscience, Volume 16, Pages 153-172, 22 November 2022](https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fncom.2022.900571/full)

All descriptions and computations of covariates related to image visual features can be found in the [utils](https://github.com/numediart/Covariates_Analysis/blob/main/utils/Readme.md) folder.

## Requirements
- [FieldTrip](https://github.com/fieldtrip/fieldtrip.git)
- [LIMO-for-FieldTrip](https://github.com/LucaLaFisca/LIMO-for-FieldTrip.git)
- [limo_tools](https://github.com/LIMO-EEG-Toolbox/limo_tools.git)

If you want to run the code as it is, you should download the corresponding dataset from [Zenodo](https://zenodo.org/records/7298746#.Y2kKIXbMK3A)

## Tutorial
### 1. Configuration of the study
Adapt the config.json file to your data.

a) Information about the study:
```
"model_names"		 	: "model_cat,model_psycho,model_image,model_psycho_image",
"model_names_naive" 		: "model_psycho,model_image,model_psycho_image",
"save_choice" 			: true,
"SOURCE_ANALYSIS" 		: false,
"task_name" 			: "semanticPriming",
"datatype"			: "bdf",
"comment_datatype"		: "bdf, edf or mat",
```

b) Information about the paths:
```
"PATH_TO_ROOT" 			: "D:/__EEG-data/BIDS_files",
"PATH_TO_FIELDTRIP" 		: "D:/FieldTrip",
"PATH_TO_LIMO" 			: "D:/_LIMO/limo_tools",	
"PATH_TO_FT2LIMO" 		: "D:/_LIMO/LIMO-for-FieldTrip",
"PATH_TO_SOURCE" 		: "D:/__EEG-data/BIDS_source",
```

c) Information about the confounders:
```
"PATH_TO_COV_ANALYSIS" 		: "C:/Users/luca-/OneDrive - UMONS/_PhD/__GitHub/Covariates_Analysis",
"PATH_TO_IMAGES" 		: "D:/_ARC-images/ARC_tache_Final/300x300",
"PATH_TO_SIMILARITY" 		: "utils/visual_similarity.csv",
"PATH_TO_ITEMS" 		: "utils/items_description.csv",
"cov_description" 		: "utils/continuous_variables.csv",
"comment_cov_descript." 	: "give the path to the csv file containing the values of the studied confounders",	
```

d) Information about the trials:
```
"trial_function" 		: "SenSem_trialfun_trial",
"comment_trial_function"	: "replace with the desired trial function (cf. FieldTrip doc)",
"trialdef_eventtype"		: "STATUS",
"trialdef_eventvalue" 		: [10, 11, 12],
"trialdef_prestim"		: 0.5,
"trialdef_poststim"		: 1,
"trial_start" 			: -200,
"trial_end" 			: 500,
"comment_trial" 		: "in ms",
```
Note: the trial function ```SenSem_trialfun_trial.m``` incorporates the confounder values to the "eeg_raw" structure. Have a look at this function in the [utils](https://github.com/numediart/Covariates_Analysis/blob/main/utils/) folder to adapt it to your data.

e) Information for the source analysis:
```
"atlas"					: "template/atlas.mat",
"headmodel"				: "template/vol.mat",
"elec"					: "template/elec.mat",
"channels"				: "[1:64]"
```

### 2. Selection of the confounders to study
The function ```var_selection(config)```, that can be found in [utils](https://github.com/numediart/Covariates_Analysis/blob/main/utils/) folder, performs a correlation analysis of the different confounders defined in the csv file provided in "cov_description".

This function, as well as the ```extract_cov``` has been specifically designed for our dataset. You should modify them to fit your data.

This step will provide the following type of figure to study the correlation between the confounders:
![Figure Description](images/confounder_correlation.jpg)

From that, you can select the targeted confounders for each model in the "selected_regressors" variable (line 56) as:
```
selected_regressors = {[],4:13,14:26,4:26}; % the regressors corresponding to each model_name
```

Commit message:

Update README.md design matrix

README.md, after:

# Covariates_Analysis

This repository is linked to the publication: 

[La Fisca et. al., "Biases in BCI Experiments: Do we really need to balance stimulus properties across categories?", Frontiers in Computational Neuroscience, Volume 16, Pages 153-172, 22 November 2022](https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fncom.2022.900571/full)

All descriptions and computations of covariates related to image visual features can be found in the [utils](https://github.com/numediart/Covariates_Analysis/blob/main/utils/Readme.md) folder.

## Requirements
- [FieldTrip](https://github.com/fieldtrip/fieldtrip.git)
- [LIMO-for-FieldTrip](https://github.com/LucaLaFisca/LIMO-for-FieldTrip.git)
- [limo_tools](https://github.com/LIMO-EEG-Toolbox/limo_tools.git)

If you want to run the code as it is, you should download the corresponding dataset from [Zenodo](https://zenodo.org/records/7298746#.Y2kKIXbMK3A)

## Tutorial
### 1. Configuration of the study
Adapt the config.json file to your data.

a) Information about the study:
```
"model_names"		 	: "model_cat,model_psycho,model_image,model_psycho_image",
"model_names_naive" 		: "model_psycho,model_image,model_psycho_image",
"save_choice" 			: true,
"SOURCE_ANALYSIS" 		: false,
"task_name" 			: "semanticPriming",
"datatype"			: "bdf",
"comment_datatype"		: "bdf, edf or mat",
```

b) Information about the paths:
```
"PATH_TO_ROOT" 			: "D:/__EEG-data/BIDS_files",
"PATH_TO_FIELDTRIP" 		: "D:/FieldTrip",
"PATH_TO_LIMO" 			: "D:/_LIMO/limo_tools",	
"PATH_TO_FT2LIMO" 		: "D:/_LIMO/LIMO-for-FieldTrip",
"PATH_TO_SOURCE" 		: "D:/__EEG-data/BIDS_source",
```

c) Information about the confounders:
```
"PATH_TO_COV_ANALYSIS" 		: "C:/Users/luca-/OneDrive - UMONS/_PhD/__GitHub/Covariates_Analysis",
"PATH_TO_IMAGES" 		: "D:/_ARC-images/ARC_tache_Final/300x300",
"PATH_TO_SIMILARITY" 		: "utils/visual_similarity.csv",
"PATH_TO_ITEMS" 		: "utils/items_description.csv",
"cov_description" 		: "utils/continuous_variables.csv",
"comment_cov_descript." 	: "give the path to the csv file containing the values of the studied confounders",	
```

d) Information about the trials:
```
"trial_function" 		: "SenSem_trialfun_trial",
"comment_trial_function"	: "replace with the desired trial function (cf. FieldTrip doc)",
"trialdef_eventtype"		: "STATUS",
"trialdef_eventvalue" 		: [10, 11, 12],
"trialdef_prestim"		: 0.5,
"trialdef_poststim"		: 1,
"trial_start" 			: -200,
"trial_end" 			: 500,
"comment_trial" 		: "in ms",
```
Note: the trial function ```SenSem_trialfun_trial.m``` incorporates the confounder values to the "eeg_raw" structure. Have a look at this function in the [utils](https://github.com/numediart/Covariates_Analysis/blob/main/utils/) folder to adapt it to your data.

e) Information for the source analysis:
```
"atlas"					: "template/atlas.mat",
"headmodel"				: "template/vol.mat",
"elec"					: "template/elec.mat",
"channels"				: "[1:64]"
```

### 2. Selection of the confounders to study
The function ```var_selection(config)```, that can be found in [utils](https://github.com/numediart/Covariates_Analysis/blob/main/utils/) folder, performs a correlation analysis of the different confounders defined in the csv file provided in "cov_description".

This function, as well as the ```extract_cov``` has been specifically designed for our dataset. You should modify them to fit your data.

This step will provide the following type of figure to study the correlation between the confounders:
![Confounders Correlation Analysis](images/confounder_correlation.jpg)

From that, you can select the targeted confounders for each model in the "selected_regressors" variable (line 56) as:
```
selected_regressors = {[],4:13,14:26,4:26}; % the regressors corresponding to each model_name
```

### 3. Create the models using design matrices
Different models cat be created depending on the confounder types you want to study. To perform the same analysis as proposed here, you should have at least 2 different types of confounders (here, psycho-linguistic variables and image features).

The models should be defined in the following order:
- 1) model for categorical variables (no confounder)
- 2) model for 1st confounder type
- ...
- n+1) model for nth confounder type
- last) model with all the confounders

This step creates a design matrix for each subject looking like the following figure:
![Design Matrix](images/design_matrix.jpg)
With the 2 first rows representing the categories and the rest being the confounder values.
